Terraform provider docs (#8598)
Unleash/unleash: website/docs/reference/terraform.mdx

---
title: Using Unleash through Terraform
---

:::note Availability

**Version**: `5.6+`

:::

## Overview

The [Unleash Terraform provider](https://github.com/Unleash/terraform-provider-unleash) allows you to manage and configure your Unleash programmatically using Terraform, enabling automated and scalable management for your infrastructure.
By integrating Unleash with Terraform, you can use infrastructure as code (IaC) to optimize the setup and maintenance of your Unleash instance configuration.

> The Unleash Terraform provider is designed to help you with the initial setup and configuration of an instance. The provider does not support managing feature flags through Terraform. Since most [feature flags are short-lived](/topics/feature-flags/feature-flag-best-practices#7-make-flags-short-lived), we recommend managing them through the Unleash Admin UI.

Author: ```suggestion
The Unleash Terraform provider is designed to help you with the **initial setup and configuration** of an instance. The provider does not support managing feature flags through Terraform. Since most [feature flags are short-lived](/topics/feature-flags/feature-flag-best-practices#7-make-flags-short-lived), we recommend managing them through the Unleash Admin UI.
```

For a detailed tutorial, follow along with [Managing Unleash through Terraform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B4OIBC1u1ns).
For more examples for the specific resources and data sources, visit the [Terraform registry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Unleash/unleash/latest/docs/data-sources/permission).

## Manage Terraform access

> The API token permissions as well as your Unleash [plan](https://www.getunleash.io/pricing) determine what objects Terraform can manage.

Author: ```suggestion
The permissions of the API token you use with Terraform and your Unleash [plan](https://www.getunleash.io/pricing) determine what objects Terraform can manage.
```

- For Open-Source and Pro, use an [admin token](/reference/api-tokens-and-client-keys#admin-tokens) or [personal access tokens](/reference/api-tokens-and-client-keys#personal-access-tokens).
- For Enterprise, use [service accounts](/reference/service-accounts). For larger teams, we recommend multiple service accounts with different permissions and separate Terraform repositories for each team under their respective projects.

## Resources

### API tokens

- `unleash_api_token`: Regulate access and maintain secure communication with verified integrations.

> ```hcl

Author: ```suggestion
Example usage:
```hcl
```

By integrating Unleash with Terraform, you can use infrastructure as code (IaC) to optimize the setup and maintenance of your Unleash instance configuration.

The Unleash Terraform provider is designed to help you with the **initial setup and configuration** of an instance. The provider does not support managing feature flags through Terraform. Since most [feature flags are short-lived](/topics/feature-flags/feature-flag-best-practices#7-make-flags-short-lived), we recommend managing them through the Unleash Admin UI.

For a detailed tutorial, follow along with [Managing Unleash through Terraform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B4OIBC1u1ns).
For more examples for the specific resources and data sources, visit the [Terraform registry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Unleash/unleash/latest/docs/data-sources/permission).

## Manage Terraform access

The permissions of the API token you use with Terraform and your Unleash [plan](https://www.getunleash.io/pricing) determine what objects Terraform can manage.

> - For Open-Source and Pro, use an [admin token](/reference/api-tokens-and-client-keys#admin-tokens) or [personal access tokens](/reference/api-tokens-and-client-keys#personal-access-tokens).

Reviewer: We're trying to move people away from using admin tokens, I think the feature is even disabled in the UI, so I'd just keep PAT for OSS

- `unleash_api_token`: Regulate access and maintain secure communication with verified integrations.

Example usage:
```hcl
resource "unleash_api_token" "client_token" {
  token_name  = "client_token"
  type        = "client"
  expires_at  = "2024-12-31T23:59:59Z"
  project     = "default"
  environment = "development"
}
```

### Projects

- `unleash_project`: Create and manage projects.
- `unleash_project_access`: Assign access roles and users to given project resources.

### Users and roles

- `unleash_role`: Define permissions systematically.
- `unleash_user`: Automate user management. Use `send_email = true` to generate an invitation link.

### Service accounts

- `unleash_service_account`: Define and manage service accounts for secure automated access.
- `unleash_service_account_token`: Generate tokens associated with service accounts.

### Single sign-on protocols

- `unleash_oidc`: Manage your [OpenID Connect configuration](../how-to/how-to-add-sso-open-id-connect).
- `unleash_saml`: Manage your [SAML configuration](../how-to/sso).

## Data sources

You can use the following data sources to fetch resources from Unleash:

- `unleash_project`
- `unleash_user`
- `unleash_role`

> - `unleash_permission`

Reviewer: Should we just link to the docs in terraform? These usually get out of sync quickly. It'd be amazing if we could somehow import the documentation from terraform: https://github.com/Unleash/terraform-provider-unleash/blob/main/docs/

Reviewer: I like this page! I was just thinking just the snippet with the examples. Alternatively, we can just keep a link to the examples in the generated docs. I didn't mean to replace the whole page

Author: Added the links in 8e4dfdb
